let's move on to our main story tonight
which yet again concerns the corona
virus very much the Timothy sha'lame of
viruses and that you barely had time to
learn its name before suddenly it was
everywhere it's been another
tough week and everyone is absolutely
desperate to get outside perhaps no one
more so than Alex Jones who's gone from
leading protests against stay at home
orders of the Texas Capitol to this
Aled minute I will eat my neighbor's I'm
not letting my kids down I'm just gonna
be honest my super powers being honest
I've extrapolated this out and I won't
have to for a few years I got food and
stuff but I'm literally looking at my
neighbor's now I'm going I'm ready to
hang them up and got them and scan them
and chop them up you know what I'm ready
my daughters aren't starving to death
I'll eat my neighbor's see my superpower
is being honest I'll eat your ass Wow
there is a lot to unpack there obviously
there's the ass eating promise but even
before that he's threatening to feed his
neighbor's to his daughters which is
weird enough before you consider he also
has a son what about him AJ why doesn't
he get to eat any human flesh
and finally Alex to Matias making plans
do desperately devour his neighbor's
several years out while also wearing an
$8,000 watch you know I may be at least
consider selling that or I don't know
planting a garden before stooping to
actual cannibalism but look things that
clearly dire right now the coronavirus
death toll is currently over 60,000 in
the u.s. meaning that in just three
months it's killed more Americans than
the Vietnam War which is a truly grim
milestone and that is what made it so
jarring to see Jared Kushner and his
resting do you know who my father is
face basically declare victory over the
virus on Wednesday the government
federal government rose to the challenge
and this is a great success story and
and I think that that's really you know
what needs to be told I think you'll see
by June a lot of the country should be
back to normal and the hope is is that
but by July the country is really
rocking again Oh it'll be really rocking
again will it Jared it's incredible to
see someone with the skin of a newborn
baby birthed in a tub of Neutrogena talk
like a middle-aged dad desperately
trying to connect
his teenage son but before we can
celebrate Jared's great success story
and get back to our Rakim selves we
badly need to work out how we can reopen
part of society safely and experts say
that really means one thing every public
health official says testing testing
testing testing testing testing testing
testing yeah good point Patrick
spongebob shouldn't be taking joy right
in his open water convertible while
wearing a cowboy hat and no mask until
we have adequate testing in place
absorbent and yellow and porous is he
two out of three of those are extremely
high risk category so get back in your
pineapple spongebob but those
experts are right in managing a pandemic
there is almost nothing more important
than widespread effective testing it is
your only chance of tracking and
containing the spread from the start
unfortunately tests have been alarmingly
scarce in this country despite the fact
the president has repeatedly claimed
that that is not the case even declaring
in early March that anyone who wants a
test can get a test but that wasn't true
then and it still isn't true now as you
probably know from seeing countless
stories like this dawn Clements in Largo
Florida has been sick since Friday her
daughter went through it two weeks ago
she has all the symptoms
no flu and can't get tested I'm
immunosuppressed with some health
conditions
and I live at an al F and I don't know
what virus I have I'm running a fever
and I have chest congestion and nobody
can test us here that is terrible
a woman who is symptomatic
immunosuppressed and living in an al F
sounds like exactly the kind of person
that you would want to have tested now
al F incidentally refers to assisted
living facility and not the 80s sitcom
alien although if she were living in Alf
she should probably still get tested
since I've heard rumors that this whole
thing started when someone ate a bowl of
alphab and she frankly far from alone
here testing is only recently months
into the spread of this virus become
more widely available in fact our
testing failure has been called the
original sin of America's pandemic
failure because had testing caught the
cases in this country early we could
have managed the virus through contact
tracing and targeted quarantine but that
did not happen so the virus spread
widely forcing us to use the blunt
instrument of making everyone stay at
home a lack of testing goes to the very
heart of how we got into this situation
and the truth is broad testing is our
only safe way out of it while experts
disagree on the exact number of tests
that we need to be doing to safely
reopen the lowest estimate is 500,000 a
day with others saying a good target
would actually be 35 million a day and
at present we've only been performing
around 200,000 a day so we're not even
hitting the lowest target here think of
it like this if our goal were to eat an
Italian dinner we're currently stuck in
traffic on our way to an Olive Garden
we're not even halfway to arriving at
the worst place that technically
qualifies so if our testing shortage is
caused this much damage this much
disruption and is still not fully
resolved we thought tonight might be a
good time to ask what the happened
and to do that we're going to be looking
at two major types of tests diagnostic
tests which tell you if you have the
virus right now and antibody tests which
tell you if you've previously had it and
let's start with
agnostic tests the most common form of
these involve having a giant swab shoved
up your nose I don't think anyone
described the experience better than
this woman oh my god
they just pulled my braids out through
buyed Austral I was looking I can taste
blood that woman took my soul out of my
head with that q-tip she actually
grabbed the back of my head like we were
lovers but instead of kissing me
she was impaling my brain yeah that
sounds pretty unpleasant unless of
course your brain is being pulled out
through your nostril by Adam driver pull
my heart out through my ear you meaty
oaktree impale my brain you unacceptable
monstrosity now diagnostic tests are key
especially at the beginning of an
outbreak but unfortunately the u.s.
committed some critical errors early on
because in mid-january
shortly after this virus was discovered
the World Health Organization
recommended a diagnostic testing
protocol but rather than follow it the
CDC decided to develop its own more
complicated test which wasn't inherently
a bad idea unfortunately though they
chose to manufacture testing kits
themselves and as those kits were
shipped around the country in early
February became clear that due to
chemical contamination during
manufacturing the tests didn't work
properly and that was already bad but
what made it even worse was the CDC then
took weeks to come up with a workaround
that would make them usable and just
losing days in a pandemic when a virus
can spread exponentially is a huge
problem losing an entire month is
absolutely catastrophic and what's
particularly frustrating here is that
some private sector labs were willing to
jump in and develop their own tests but
throughout February they were slowed
down by having to jump through
bureaucratic hoops like this one of the
things is they needed a document FedExed
across the country before they would
look at the document you couldn't
electronically change good
electronically transmitted but they
couldn't look at it until is FedExed and
then they changed that regulation and so
from a couple days after February 26th
didn't have a test they were completely
blind to this had to be incredibly
frustrating it was frustrating it was
yeah I bet it was in fact the FDA
suggested to him that he sent a printed
paper hardcopy of the submission and a
CD or thumb drive with an electronic
copy and where would you even find a
blank CD at a Walgreens 20 years ago or
does the FDA really expect everyone to
burn over road jams 2005 because no
way FDA that's a classic mix
right there it's got all the songs from
American Idiot in the order that they
appeared on American Idiot but better
because they were stolen off line wire
and while that requirement was quickly
lifted it was just one of many
logistical and bureaucratic challenges
that slowed things down at the worst
possible time in fact it wasn't until
the last day of February that the FDA
finally did something that private labs
had been begging them to do and allowed
those labs to develop and use their own
tests without waiting for authorization
but by that point a whole month
had gone by and incredibly we'd only
tested in the whole country 472 people
in total that is it even as as we've
since learned the virus was spreading
undetected in multiple major cities now
by contrast on the exact same date South
Korea which has just one-sixth our
population had completed 55,000 tests
and even well into March Alex a czar the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
didn't seem too concerned about that
disparity because watch how he responded
when he was asked about it my question
is why was South Korea able to do this
in a week and it seems to be such a
struggle for the you know it's not about
ability it's about what they needed to
do they had an explosive immediate
outburst and cluster becoming one of the
world's epicenters of the disease we are
not that yeah we're not South Korea
South Korea has tested a bunch of people
for coronavirus and found a bunch of
people with coronavirus we've tested
almost no one for coronavirus and found
almost no one with coronavirus to the
best of our knowledge the situations
could not be more different although
again the best of our knowledge
is essentially no knowledge look for too
long the US response seemed to be
characterized by an arrogant belief that
for some reason coronavirus was never
going to come to America because I guess
it just wouldn't dare and unfortunately
we're currently living in the
consequences of those early failures
because by moving so slowly we now find
ourselves in the midst of serious global
shortages of crucial testing components
just listen to the scientists that you
saw earlier explained the links that
he's had to go to in order to get what
he needed from the test manufacturer
Roche one of the hardest things to find
the single-use plastic tips that contain
the chemicals and the specimens this is
what we're looking for basically we
tweeted at Roche and the world to get
these things in like you a tweet like
Dell said lost your bags or something
like that right holy
you should not have to tweet at a
company to get parts for essential lab
equipment not only should there be a
better process for that but also that's
just not what Twitter is for as we all
know Twitter is for exactly three things
opossum every hour
Chrissy Teigan and the official account
for beef and if you don't follow that
yeah absolutely should because that's
where you can find tweets like nicely
done beef which is beef tweeting
encouragement at beef and is a level of
unconditional self-love that frankly
more of us should aspire to and you can
also find their actual Mother's Day
tweet to the monks who wrangle dust fed
us and cared for us we wish you a
hashtag happy Mother's Day
with a picture of a mother cow and a
baby cow who will both presumably one
day become beef at which point I'm
pretty sure the account will tweet
nicely done beef and it's not just lab
equipment here even the chemical
reagents needed to run the test or the
swabs that impale people's brains have
to be specifically manufactured
something that the president seemed
absolutely fascinated by to swab looks
innocent not very complicated is it does
it remind you of something remind you of
this right once a swab wants a q-tip
it's actually different it's very
sophisticated actually but it's a little
bit like so this is the swamp
yeah that's the swab obviously and the
backstory to him deciding to personally
bring a q-tip to that briefing to
proudly show everyone is so painfully
obvious someone showed him the long swab
and he said isn't that a q-tip and they
said no they're different and he said
but they looked the same and they said
no they don't and he said but they're
both tall thin and whites like all my
girlfriends and they said good one mr.
president
and he said so what's the problem and
they said they're not the same and he
said but they're both tall thin and
white like all my girlfriends and they
said good one again mr. president and he
said so what gives and they said he's a
q-tip and he said that one is short thin
and whites like my girlfriends when they
were children and they said exactly and
he said I have to tell America and then
he did but second and much more
importantly for months things like swabs
were very hard to find and multiple
governors expressed his stress that the
federal government was not stepping in
to help smooth out the supply chain
there are things like shortages on on
swabs that we don't have anywhere in
America yeah you can't do the tests
without we need some assistance from the
federal government when it comes to
swabs and reagents we've been fighting
for for testing it's not a it's not a
straightforward test we we don't even
have enough swabs believe it or not to
do the testing you need testing
equipment you need swabs you need vials
and you need all of these things at a
capacity that does not now exist yeah
it's pretty straightforward to do proper
testing you need proper equipment is why
generally you prefer a doctor with a
thermometer of one who just thinks he
has a real natural knack for guessing a
person's temperature and in response to
those concerns Trump initially claimed
that the problems those governors were
experiencing simply didn't exist we're
in great shape it's so easy to get that
reagents and and swabs are so easy to
get swabs are easy
and this isn't something that hospitals
and states have been saying there are
shortages for more than a month now we
have millions of them coming in very
soon and many of them already have been
ordered and the governor's don't know
quite where they are but they'll be
finding them fairly soon they'll be
finding them fairly soon these are
crucial medical supplies in the midst of
a pandemic not a scavenger hunt
the swabs are on me where imaginations
run wild each level I have the pages are
piled where imaginations run wild and
the pages are polished wicked a bushel a
bookshelf the swabs for nationwide
diagnostic testing run a bookshelf I did
it wait why is this a game now
now Trump did eventually invoke the
defense production act to ramp up
manufacturing of swabs but he did it
late and again
timing is absolutely everything here
from the start the story of diagnostic
testing is of us making mistakes and
wasting valuable time in fiction the
meaning tests were heavily rationed and
often only given to people who met
extremely narrow criteria which makes it
especially frustrating that in his
victory lap this week Jared Kushner said
this somebody asked me why it took so
long I actually said you should look at
how did we do this so quickly and what's
really happened it's really truly
extraordinary no it isn't Jared
taking months to do what other countries
did in weeks is not extraordinary the
only thing that's extraordinary here is
that the most punchable face in America
somehow looks like it's never been
touched by human hands to just absorb
fists like a bowl of heavy cream
what's your secret your translucent
sociopath and look the failures in
diagnostic testing have led us to our
current situation where we still don't
know how many people in this country
have or have had the corona virus you
may have even found yourself wondering
wait did I have it earlier this year I
had that cough and it did feel a bit
sick was that it well that actually
brings us to antibody tests which detect
whether your body produced the
antibodies that fights the corona virus
now finding out if people have those is
really helpful for public health
officials as it gives them a better
sense of where the virus has traveled
and how many people have recovered but
on an individual
level you have to be very careful when
talking about antibodies because too
often the shorthand is if you have them
you're immune
here is Governor Cuomo doing basically
exactly that that would mean that you're
no longer contagious and you can't catch
the virus because you have the
antibodies in your system which means
you can get to work and go back to
school you can do whatever you want I
can do whatever I want
that sounds great governor I for one
would absolutely love the opportunity to
have my current panic attacks outdoors
sometimes you want the walls to close in
on you only figuratively and that's okay
and look it would obviously be great if
the presence of antibodies meant that
you were immune from reinfection and
there is a good chance that it does mean
that but we don't know that yet because
cough it 19 is still so new we're still
not sure exactly what antibody levels
might be needed to make you
hypothetically immune how strong that
immunity would be or how long it might
even last and to his credit Anthony
Falchi is constantly trying to point
this out we do not know exactly what an
antibody titer means I mean there's an
assumption a reasonable assumption that
when you have an antibody that you are
protected against reinfection but that
has not been proven for this particular
virus yeah and just because something is
probably true doesn't mean you can
automatically assume that it is I mean
did Nintendo create and release Kovac 19
as part of a plan to boost sales of
animal crossing to a newly captive
audience we don't know for sure do we we
all basically agree but we can't say
with any certainty yet so antibody tests
could actually mean significantly less
right now than people understandably
want them to and that is assuming that
they're even accurate which is not
necessarily the case because while the
FDA clearly slow things down
far too much when it came to diagnostic
tests they overcorrected hard when it
came to antibody tests basically giving
a green light to make tests with
essentially no oversight and as a result
there are now over a hundred and fifty
of them on the market none of which are
FDA approved in fact only ten are
FDA authorized which means little more
than that some forms have been submitted
and researchers who've looked at tests
have found that while a few are reliable
many many many more just are not we have
the wild wild west for testing right now
the FDA has all but given up its
oversight responsibility for the tests
we have on the market
many of them are nothing short of a
disaster right now if you were to test
for antibody in most places in the
United States over half the tests would
be false positives think about what he
just said that many of the tests are
garbage and over half of the positive
test results right now would be wrong at
that point why not just how people go to
a guess your coronavirus antibody level
booth just five bucks and Jim here will
guess yours if he's wrong and there's
basically no way of knowing if he is
then you get a stuffed giraffe so here
we are months into this crisis still
badly in need of more testing both
diagnostic and antibody and yet without
any clear coordinated strategy for how
to best achieve that and not only has
the president repeatedly lied about the
availability of our tests he's still
doing it right now he's saying
that our testing capacity is sufficient
to reopen the country which remember
according to experts
it isn't we're doing around 200,000
tests a day when we likely need millions
and yet on Tuesday the president
insisted though we were actually just
about there some health experts say the
US needs five million tests per day by
June in order to safely reopen you
unveiled a plan yesterday that will
increase testing but not by that much
why not and can you get to that
benchmark well it will increase it and
it will increase it by much more than
that in the very near future are you
saying you're confident you can surpass
5 million tests per day is
oh well we're gonna be there very soon
if you look at the numbers it could be
that we're getting very close but the
thing is we're not very close in fact
we're not close at all and that is a lie
that he's going to get instantly caught
on
it's like someone claiming that they
have a 10-inch penis immediately before
taking off their underwear okay that's
an undeniably impressive claim but if
you're lying I'm gonna be very
disappointed and a little angry that you
thought I wouldn't notice and sure
enough that very day
Trump's Assistant Secretary of Health
told reporters there is absolutely no
way on earth on this planet or any other
planet that we can do 20 million tests a
day or even five million tests today and
look some confusion is inevitable when a
new disease starts spreading its way
around the world and it's not like
rolling out testing on this kind of
scale was ever gonna be easy but again
and again the people in charge failed to
prepare for the worst-case scenario and
have been slow in fixing mistakes all of
which means in May we are still playing
catch-up in the middle of a pandemic
which in turn means thousands upon
thousands of people dying preventable
deaths so if this is a great success
story for anyone it's for the
coronavirus we need to scale up tests
massively and right away because if we
want to return to the world that we used
to one with sports restaurants hugs and
turning down party invitations because
it's raining and not because you might
die testing is how we get there and that
is a message that should really unite
everyone in this country from the people
at home worried about the potential loss
of life to the people out protesting
social distancing because they think
it's too high a price to pay to Alex
Jones preparing to barbecue his
neighbor's we could all stand to listen
to the advice of one of our bravest
brightest stars testing testing testing
testing testing testing
that guy was really ahead of his time
and now this
you